Let’s say that you’re in charge of an e-commerce D2C business that sells socks.

What business health metrics would you care about tracking on a company dashboard?
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In this scenario, there are high-level metrics we’d want to consider, such as revenue and profitability. Still, since it is an e-commerce business, you also want to consider inventory and service levels.

You’d first want to ask the interviewer who is tracking the business’s health. If our analysts are looking at it, we would want things at a more granular level than if board members are looking at them, for example.

Secondly, to understand the business, we should spend more time thinking about the controllable inputs and see how we can weave that into our response during the interview.

A few examples of controllable inputs examples are:

The landing page of the website
The price we offer for shipping options
The number of ads we run on social media websites
A business can start with high-level metrics since tracking profitability will always be the most important. Profitability tracking can include costs associated with running the industry, such as employee salary, operating costs, revenue vs. profit, etc.

The second would be to consider inventory and what percentage of customer demand we could fulfill. The third would be the efficiency metric, which could track the speed as you go through the list.

Finally, since you are in the e-commerce space, you would want to deliver at speeds that are at least relatively comparable to the many competitors in the space. It doesn’t need to be at Amazon levels since we are so specialized, but we wouldn’t want to keep customers waiting more than two weeks.

The final thing we’d want to consider is the timeframe of the metrics. Is the business looking at this as someone from the day-to-day operations or as a board member viewing the data sporadically, trying to understand the long-term trajectory?

If I’m a board member, I’m looking at the operating income last quarter versus the next quarter instead of day-to-day operations.

If I were someone in operations, I would be concerned with how many users we got today. How many socks did we sell? What’s the average cost of all the socks that came in? How much is in inventory, and how much is going out? Which socks do we need to sell, and which socks do we need to restock?

With this in mind, some suggested metrics could be:

Operating Income
Conversion rate from important pages (landing page, referral page, pages describing promoted products)
Average Time to Deliver
Revenue (vs. previous quarter)
