Let’s say you work for a social media company that has just done a launch in a new city. Looking at weekly metrics, you see a slow decrease in the average number of comments per user from January to March in this city.

The company has been consistently growing new users in the city from January to March.

What are some reasons why the average number of comments per user would be decreasing and what metrics would you look into?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let’s take the approach of investigating a couple of different metrics. 

Average comments per user are calculated by taking the total number of comments divided by the total number of users. So let’s model out an example scenario.

Jan: 10000 users, 30000 comments, 3 comments/user
Feb: 20000 users, 50000 comments, 2.5 comments/user
Mar: 30000 users, 60000 comments, 2 comments/user

We’re given information that the total user count is increasing linearly which means that the decreasing comments/user is not an effect of a declining user base creating a loss of network effects on the platform.

With this we can hypothesize a couple of answers:

1. Could more users cause less individual engagement?

Otherwise known as the crowding effect, we can model this by looking at a cohort of users that started in the first week of January and then another cohort of users that started the first week of March. If we see no difference between the number of comments after the first, second, third weeks, then there likely is no crowding effect happening.

2. What about active user engagement?

We know that even as the company is increasing users, it’s likely users will fall off and churn off the platform. Let’s say we model the user churn by month.

Month 1: 25% Churn
Month 2: 20% Churn
Month 3: 15% Churn

This means that for the cohort of users that starts in January, by February there are now only 7500 (10000 * 75%) active users, then in March 6000 active users from a 20% churn.

This can explain a likely effect of why we see a decrease of comments per user even though the total user count is increasing linearly. Churn decreases the active user counts which are assumed to be directly correlated to how many comments will exist on a platform. Because we have less active users on the platform, the denominator is in this case a fake proxy for actual platform engagement.

If we wanted to measure if active users will still comment, we could then just look at comments per active user.

3. What does retention look like?

Many users that join in the launch could be the ones with the most engagement given their bias towards being first adopters. One way to measure if this hypothesis is true towards having higher comments/users in earlier users is to look at other cities in their first few months of launch. If the retention curves look similar in terms of the number of comments per user when segmented by city, then it will provide insight into whether or not the initial rate was inflated due to a concentration of highly active users.
