Let’s say that you’re working at Netflix.

The company executives are working to renew a deal with another TV network that grants Netflix exclusive licensing to stream their hit TV series (think something like Friends or The Office). One of the executives wants to know how to approach this deal.

We know that the TV show has been on Netflix for a year already. 

How would you approach valuing the benefit of keeping this show on Netflix?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Given that the company executives are working to renew a deal with another TV network, let’s understand the reasons why we would want to renew the show. For simplicity, let’s reference The Office as the name of the TV Show. 

Netflix mainly has three goals for what their content should help achieve: 

Acquisition: To increase the number of subscribers.

Retention: To increase the number of active subscribers and retain them as paying members. 

Revenue: To increase overall revenue.

We know The Office has been on Netflix for at least a year which means the value of the TV show can be understood as the cost of losing subscribers rather than the loss of new subscribers. This is due to the assumption that all Office fans who would have bought a Netflix subscription to watch the show probably already have done so.  

Computing a Valuation

Estimating the number of users who would drop their subscription if The Office is removed is the main challenge here. We can try to estimate a lower and upper bound that would help understand the percentage of users that would be affected by The Office being removed. 

Lower Bound

We can compute a lower bound by further segmenting the users who have joined in the past year. Not all users who watch The Office and joined in the past year are going to leave Netflix if the show is removed.

We can look at further Netflix activity of these users by looking at the fraction of time spent watching The Office vs. total time on Netflix. If some customers spend all their time on Netflix watching The Office, this fraction would be 100%.

The lower bound computation can be made by thresholding this fraction (say >80%) and computing the revenue generated by these users. This would then be the minimum cost of a renewal of the TV show. 

Upper Bound 

We can compute an upper bound by computing the revenue generated from the number of users who have joined in the last year who have watched some minimum threshold amount of The Office. 

This serves as an upper bound of how much we should pay for a renewed license. The assumption behind this computation is that everyone who joined Netflix before the availability of The Office would remain subscribed to the platform. Additionally, as an upper bound computation, we assume that these people solely joined Netflix as a result of being able to watch The Office.

We can further break it down to a formula such as:

NS = # of new subscribers in the past year who watch the show

EV = expected length of subscription in months 

Price =  subscription tier price

The Office Valuation = NS x EV x Price

This gives us an idea of the expected value of incremental additional revenue from new viewers who joined and watched  this show extensively (e.g. 50% completion or >30% of their total viewing time)

Cost-Benefit Analysis

We’d have to weigh the cost/benefit of renewing vs. not renewing the licensing. Then within the option of renewing, what the perceived monetary benefit would be over the lifetime of the deal to set a ceiling for negotiations. 

To generate the previously mentioned EV (expected length of the new subscriber’s subscription) - we’d have to dive into the ‘stickiness’ of those new users (i.e. how likely are they to keep renewing their subscriptions)

How high is the average completion rate for the show for these users?
When they complete or stop watching, the show, how much time do they spend on watching other shows? Does the total proportion of watch time for this show drop as they pick up other shows?
What type of other shows do they search for? And does Netflix hold those titles? E.g. Shows like Parks & Rec, Brooklyn 99 & Arrested Development would tend to pull a similar audience to The Office
Secondly, how do we compute a valuation for the continued subscription of the existing user base who watches this show?

We could use a threshold akin to narrow down find users who spent >30% of their total watch time last year watching this show (i.e. the continuity of this show potentially significantly contributes to their likelihood of renewal)
Since introducing this show, has the existing user base who watches this show increased their “time on-screen” usage (existing user ‘stickiness’) or viewing frequency?
Typically licensing deals tend to be geographically locked. Which regions are the TV network allowing to stream within? We would need to factor in the value of the show-watching audience in all these regions 
Last thoughts:

While the above metrics can be used to determine a rough monetary valuation for the revenue that the show contributes to bringing, pricing strategy itself would be another topic. Would a simple cost-plus strategy suffice? Or is rapid user growth more important to the company than profitability right now? 

If it is the latter, one must consider the strategic implications of not licensing it and potentially having the show go to Amazon/Hulu/etc., and how that would affect subscribership (i.e. losing customers with low ‘stickiness’ outside of watching this specific show). 

Another consideration is the opportunity cost of doing the deal. Could that 
$
100
$100m be used to custom-build more Netflix Originals to please existing viewers, given the treasure trove of information Netflix already has on viewing habits?

Lastly, it’s helpful to note that companies like Netflix thrive off of lifetime value calculations. For a company like Netflix with extremely high retention, this can be a retention percentage as high as 99% each month. So when calculating the length of time that a customer stays on, a 1% reduction in retention such as 98% versus 99% could mean hundreds of millions of dollars. 

So with a company like Netflix that probably has good correlation metrics on their core metrics such as watch time and MAU to renewal rates and retention, it should be easy to then calculate how The Office affects those core metrics, and plug them into their formula for understanding the true cost of losing the show.
